how do you make it stick your biggest
enemy is you
hey everybody today's episode is brought
to you by impact Theory University's own
business decision making Workshop if
you're a business owner looking to scale
your company I can help I've created a
four-week intensive Workshop that's
going to give you the decision making
strategies that you need to scale your
company it's the exact things that I use
to take quests to a billion dollar exit
and it's exactly what I'm using today on
impact Theory that's allowed us to grow
by 400 percent in just the last two
years this sounds like something that
would be beneficial to you and your
business I want you to go right now to
decision.impacttheory.com to apply once
again that's decision dot impact
theory.com you can apply today all right
I'll see you on the inside
one of the great secrets in life to
becoming successful whether it's in a
business whether it's working with
someone or for someone or in your
personal life is be prepared in life for
a lot of rejection
my father left when I was 10 years old I
started working when I was 10 years old
I got left back in school I never went
to college and half of my friends were
dead already in jail what I chose to do
was go a different route and say you
know what I don't think I'm that smart
about investing and I actually want to
learn how fundamental basic investing
work your product has to be amazing okay
there's just no substitute for that
get great at something like get really
good what it means is that process of
okay go to the thing and enjoy it I've
told I'll never be able to do anything
in life and now I'm a motivational
speaker five-time Walker best-selling
author I created a company that has
influenced a good portion of the planet
I've employed a thousands of people and
been able to change people's lives
[Applause]
what do you say though to people for
whom the deck really is stacked against
them like they're coming at it from a
place that's harder than somebody else
you know for better or worse I think
we'd all agree for worse that
um the luck
um who you know all of that stuff is not
evenly distributed right so some people
are they're they're certainly starting
from a deficit do you give them a pass
or to you is it just sort of the nature
of the Beast that you have to outwork
outperform
I'm never going to give them a pass
because
um
my father left when I was 10 years old
raised by a single mother I started
working when I was 10 years old I
haven't stopped working ever since I'm
dyslexic I got left back in school I
never went to college I didn't know
anybody with wealth I grew up in a
community that was riddled with crack
and half of my friends were dead or in
jail by the age of 21. I'm sure that I
don't have no athletic skill I can't
sing and I can't dance really well and
I'm black and I've been at the I've been
at the
I've been at the barrel of the cops gone
three separate times when my only crime
was I had t-shirts in my back trunk and
I was reaching for the stars
um I've told I would never be able to do
anything in life and now I'm a
motivational speaker five-time author
best-selling author I've been on a major
Network for 12 years I've created a
company that has influenced a good
portion of the planet I've employed
thousands of people and uh and been able
to change people's lives
um you know the reality is I'm never
going to get away from being black short
and and dyslexic that's just what it is
uh so let's get past that I'm not going
to get away from the fact that covet is
here that's just what it is right
um so if I can do it and this is one of
the main reasons that I do write the
Books and I put things out because I'm a
prime example of Simplicity hard work
and common sense with morals and uh and
being able to embarrass yourself take
affordable steps and learn from them and
you apply that you can you can do it I
do know it's hard and reality is
I've met people that are more successful
with me that had it harder than me
people that grew up in countries where
they have to drink out of the same water
that the animals drink out of you know
that they've seen tragic tragic uh
things happen on a daily basis you know
so uh you know it's out there but we
have two choices
to sit there and say well with me and
just be another one of the statistics or
if you sit there and give it up give it
our best and learn from people like me
who say my dumb ass can make it then you
can you can do it too one of the great
secrets in life
to becoming successful whether it's in a
business whether it's working with
someone or for someone or in your
personal life
and I learned this selling encyclopedia
store to dorm early twenties is be
prepared in life for a lot of rejection
because if you're prepared for a lot of
Rejection it comes you don't get turned
off you don't get disappointed like well
I'm not going to do this anymore no one
thinks it's a good idea it's like I say
selling encyclopedias knocking 100 doors
they slap them in your face you must be
just as enthusiastic on door number 101
as door number one
um and and getting to understand your
Technique in selling is easy once you
get to Paul Mitchell and I do want you
to walk us through that in a second but
how did you get through like tactically
to a sale in the encyclopedia world like
people don't want to hear from you so
like how do you overcome that what a
question asked me the average
encyclopedia salesman lasted three days
I was at it for three and a half years
and the way it worked in those days it
was commission only so the way it worked
is you went for an interview they told
you all you could possibly make off
commission only and we were in training
for three days it was a presentation
that was scripted we'd have to memorize
the whole thing when we got in the field
you remember parts of it you knock on
doors you're not quite sure of yourself
a lot of doors are close in your face
but what happens after a while you start
getting used to it and you see what you
can say or do
that'll make it better but when you go
back the next day with your other sales
people what you see what you do what did
I say so let's say I knock out 100 doors
to get into one give 10 presentations to
sell one book but then when you get
better and better at it through your
experiences and losses along the way it
sharpens you up where all of a sudden I
got to a point where if I gave three
presentations I have no less than one
order commission only but I believe that
I could do that I believe that
colleagues with the best set of books
because a high school student could read
it it wasn't like a college manual you
had to read and I was doing something
good for somebody so you have to believe
that what you're doing is good is going
to benefit somebody and you learn as you
go okay do I look someone in the eye see
a lot of people don't know these things
look someone in the eye
all too often people say it's hard to
look someone in the eye because you feel
uncomfortable of course you do they're
not on the same wavelength you're under
the same frequency so what do you do how
do you overcome that you learn these
things along the way you look them right
between the eyes they're at their
eyebrow it looks like it like over the
eye I've been working on a book for a
couple of years with some of these tips
and it's not ready yet maybe next year
will be ready but uh there's all these
things and of course smile smile is the
most wonderful thing God gave us and you
don't smile when you first talk to
somebody you smile before you knock on
their door
and if your day sucks you fake it hi how
you doing because when you smile
Everything Changes people change how did
you build your brand with Quest and
impact Theory your branding and
Community has been so powerful how'd you
create it
okay so
um Quest was really a company born out
of misery so before that I was chasing
money
and I was just hell-bent to get rich and
I spent eight and a half years chasing
money building a company that I didn't
really care about and thought while we
solved the problem for people it
certainly wasn't something I was
passionate about I don't think it was
really something even the people buying
it were passionate about which oddly
enough actually made it hard and it
certainly made it soul sucking and so uh
at the end of that I realized I was not
willing to do it anymore and I actually
went into my partners and I said I quit
I can't keep doing this I gave them the
equity back in the company I said this
is just total misery for me I can't be a
part of this and long story short
because I only have two minutes per
answer they said you know what we
actually feel the same way and for three
very different reasons we decided to get
into nutrition and we agreed that it was
going to be a company predicated on
value creation for the employees and the
customer that it would be a passion play
that we would ask the question what
would we do and love every day even if
we were failing and by shifting our
Focus over to that and really focusing
on something that was
fun for us that we can enjoy in the
moment that was creating value for other
people it was just a total Game Changer
and it focused us on building community
and making an amazing product that was
actually good and holding ourselves to
just a totally different standard than
we had been holding ourselves to before
so it really was a radical shift that
made us think about branding up until
that point we'd never really thought
about branding it was always the product
we were trying to brand and not the
company and so that was a big shift with
impact Theory I'm really trying to take
that to the next level and really truly
being entirely Community focused how
many people do you think are getting
pulled in in a way that's exciting like
hey now you've got 17 year olds creating
YouTube content around Investments which
is real and I am utterly shocked by that
and how much of this is like oh my God
we're heading towards a cliff
um
that's a great question okay let me
start off with what happened with my
first Investments so here it is it's
around 1999 2000 everybody thinks
they're a tech genius you put money in
any stock it goes up 26 the next day
so what do I do I take my college
scholarship money and I put some of it
in the stock market thinking
this is easy 20 yeah guarantee and every
day it's going up and down but mostly uh
was there a massive view for you I
wasn't focused yes at all yes everybody
was
um everybody believed they're a genius
so in a bull market everybody believes
they're a genius and
um they all say the same phrase This
Time It's Different it's so funny it's
it's such a funny phrase that in the
investment world people make fun of it
it's a they're mocked because it's never
different it's actually the same thing
bubbles expand uh but over time they
mathematically cannot continue so here
we have people making millions of
dollars who would otherwise be working
in a parking garage and they are giving
stock tips out and telling everybody you
got to get into this jdsu this you know
all kinds of stuff
so I take my college scholarship money
put it in the market and
I very quickly lose half the money
because of the crash yeah or because of
the crash and so what happens is I
realize oh my God I'm not as smart as I
thought it's not easy to become a
millionaire through investing in two
weeks and so here is where there was a
pivotal moment one I could have doubled
down and said I just picked the wrong
stock let me pick another stock this is
very similar to what you hear with
people in the crypto World well my
investment quote investment dropped 50
but you know I got to do this coin or
that coin Etc
what I chose to do is go different and
say you know what I don't think I'm that
smart about investing and I actually
want to learn how fundamental basic
investing works so things like low-cost
long-term things like reading about John
bogle's philosophy
Etc
and I started to learn about it you get
whacked in the head enough times and you
say I could be wrong and how do you know
I'm right in my case the the really big
case was that in
1980-81 I had calculated that American
Banks had lent a lot more money to
countries that would not be able to pay
the debt back a lot of money banking
crisis and that was very controversial
point of view so I'm I'm talking about
wow a big thing happening and then um so
it got reported and then Mexico
defaulted on its desk in August 1982 and
I thought that we're now going to go
into an economic crisis because a number
of the other countries followed and that
was transpiring in that way and I
started my business since 75 by the way
and at 82 I think we had like eight
people and we loved each other and we
were doing that thing but I I couldn't
have been more wrong
um it was the exact bottom in the stock
market so I was very publicly wrong and
even more painfully I had to let go
those people and I was so broke that I
had to borrow four thousand dollars from
my dad to help to pay for family bills I
mean it was so it's painful but you you
know okay now you've got a baseball bat
to the head and to how many does it take
and then uh you think uh okay how do I
know I'm right how do I know I'm right
so I was very audacious uh you know
going after my goals and whatever my
opinion I didn't want to lose that but
you know now you're faced with the
choice you know like the way I look at
it is I want a great life how do I have
the greatest life but I can have the
risk of being wrong and then everything
changed because I figured it out
[Music]
um so first and foremost this is what I
call the arrogance of belief you have to
believe that you can accomplish it so I
won't say that I ever allowed goals to
seem out of my reach there have been
many many times in my life where I was
really unsure of how I was going to pull
it off but I never let that stop me from
taking the first step and I think that's
critical so here at impact Theory we're
building a studio a traditional studio
so think Disney and I think it's going
to take a very long time to outpace
Disney and I have no idea how we're
actually going to pull it off I have
some theories things we're going to try
um but that didn't stop me from taking
the first step and taking a risk and
knowing that I'll be looking for
opportunities along the way and that I
won't be afraid to Pivot or go in a New
Direction so that's really critical and
developing the skill the willingness to
even though you don't know exactly how
you're going to pull it off to have
faith that taking one step after another
is always always always the right answer
so only execution matters being willing
to take a risk is absolutely critical
um so yeah that's always been my AI
motto always be learning and always be
moving forward first of all nobody knows
and if you bring anyone on the show who
tells you what's going to happen in the
stock market they're an idiot and and or
they're lying so I'm not going to do
that nobody knows and you'll find this
in politics and money a lot of people
want to be comforted by essentially a
parental figure somebody who comes in
here and tells you it's all going to be
okay or conversely it's all going to
and they prey on people's
weaknesses as to what's going on the
best investors are humble they know that
nobody knows anything what do we know we
know that over time the market continues
to return approximately seven to eight
percent and that's over a hundred plus
years
we know that there are always people on
Reddit and Twitter who've got these
fanciful narrations of what's going on
in the world and they all disappear once
the narrative is proved incorrect
if you worry you don't have to worry
and if you don't worry you have to worry
okay
because what I mean is
um if you're worrying about what can go
wrong your chances are you will create
the protections against that thing going
wrong
and therefore that's good
and if you're not worrying about the
things that are going to go wrong
then now probably the things you never
expect are going to come and hit you
okay and so it sounds counter-intuitive
if you worry don't have to worry if you
don't worry you better worry but what it
means is that process of okay go to the
thing go to it and enjoy it view these
things as puzzles your personality will
change you'll enjoy it okay because life
is a puzzle it's it's a going through
the jungle okay it's it's like that I'll
I'll tell you a story yeah
so I um I crash
and I figure oh
risk and reward go together
you want to have a great life
okay and you want to be safe at the same
time they sound almost like mutually
exclusive
okay so I so I viewed it as okay I'm
like sitting on one side of a jungle and
that if I can get to the other side of a
jungle safely I'll have a great life but
uh okay but if I cross the jungle all
sorts of things going to happen now what
am I going to choose am I going to be on
this side of the Jungle and uh have just
an ordinary life
or am I going to have the what I think
is the best life possible but oh I can
get bit and all those things and that's
just the nature of life and then I and I
said I have to it's my nature I have to
have the best life I can have so I've
got to go into the jungle now the
question is how do I go into that jungle
and be successful at that and I could
tell you the answer
the answer is first by worrying about
what I don't see that I might be wrong
with and to do it with people who see
the things that I might not see and we
are all doing and as a mission to get
through that jungle well together and
when I went through that jungle and we
do that together the thing I found out
which is so wonderful is I don't want to
leave the jungle I don't want to get to
the other side because I want to be with
those people on that mission and that
whole experiences becomes great I love
to be positive how did that make the
list so of all the things in the world
that you could say are like the secrets
that being positive is one of the main
things that people need to do how did
you happen on that in life
whether it's personal or people around
me when you see people that are positive
that look at something good in something
bad that took place they move along in
life faster they're better and people
want to be around these people I mean
too often people gossip the one gospel
person wants to be around the other
person that gossips
realize when you gossip you're saying
something you heard about somebody else
you're telling everybody what if part of
it was wrong you're going to go out and
tell every person you told this oh I'm
sorry it was wrong tell everybody you
told it's not going to happen so it
seems to learn about don't gossip don't
be little people if you don't have to
God please don't try and look at the
positive angle what good could come out
of something and that possumness is
going to make you live longer happier
and wake up in the morning happy not oh
my God I gotta go to work I can't wait
till I get home I want to retire because
people were not positive they were not
happy and what happens if they retire
they hate their job they retire three or
four years later they're dead because
they have nothing to do that positive
attitude be around positive people
encourage positiveness if you find
yourself walking around just complaining
all the time around people that complain
a lot man move or just try and do
something different change your life
being positive in a positive attitude is
find something positive and something
bad makes you look for Solutions when I
was down and out okay oh Pop Bottles
let's get the pop bottles cash them in
I love that because I until you said
that I knew that people listening were
thinking well it's easy for you to be
positive you're a billionaire so but the
fact that you were positive even when
you had to be looking for the bottles to
recycled to make sense meat to get your
99 cent meals that's incredible I hope
you guys are enjoying this episode which
is brought to you by impact Theory
universities business decision making
workshop with nine full-length classes
and weekly live case studies with me the
business decision making Workshop is a
Hands-On approach to honing your
abilities to scale your business I'm
going to be in there with you working
through your hardest problems so that
you'll be able to master how to overcome
any impediment by getting the most
foundational way to Think Through novel
problems and that my friends is exactly
what you need to do if you want to scale
your company and have the kind of crazy
success you've always dreamed I promise
it is possible this is teachable this is
something that you can learn it is a
process that you can deploy against your
business and be able to move confidently
forward just go right now to
decision.impacttheory.com to apply do
not delay my friends spots are limited
again go to decision Dot impact
theory.com and apply today I'll see you
guys on the inside
[Music]
you know when you're at that dark moment
that there is a path out of this and
that you have to look for that and keep
pushing and smile it's like all these
like really basic things that you've
stacked on top of them so how then do we
go from that to the Paul Mitchell that
we know today well obviously it was hand
to mouth for the first two years but we
knew we had the best there was and we
just kept on working it and working with
it telling hairdressers will be the
first one to never cut you out most
people have gone in the beauty industry
and said hey we're only going to be in
salons a lot of companies all of a
sudden they're in department stores or
in drugstores and supermarkets but we
kept on telling people if you ever and
you still do today see Paul Mitchell in
the drugstore Supermarket it's either
counterfeit or from the black Ray Market
we don't put it there we only put it in
salons but the demand for Paul Mitchell
exceeds where you could get it it's only
in salons and maybe only in 10 percent
of all salons so people know it's the
best there is and people could actually
pay full retail in the salon for Paul
Mitchell
put it on their drugstore shelf up to
two dollars and they sell every bottle
they have because people don't know what
it costs they just know it's really
really good stuff so we kind of kept
with what we had and always make sure
any new product we came out with was the
best it could possibly be well what's
interesting about the beauty industry
and quality my first three products are
still some of my best sellers we've had
them now for almost 37 years it's that
quality make sure of your service or
your products the very best it is plus
we gave back along the way what was the
single most valuable tool you used to
create your business
well that's really twofold there's only
um you have to to give two answers that
one your product has to be amazing okay
there's just no substitute for that and
that's why I really encourage people get
great at something like get really good
focus on being amazing focus on being
extraordinary outperforming everybody
else having something that nobody else
can match like that is so important and
I think that in the um
with the millennial desire for immediacy
and anybody quite frankly that uses
social media where it's so fast like
there's you can get something out really
rapidly you can get feedback really
rapidly
um and even just the forget social media
like The Mobile Generation I could order
something from Amazon now and and it'll
be delivered by the time I'm done like
with this segment it's crazy how fast so
we've all really been trained to want
things immediately and that's why I
think the people that are willing to go
head down and do the work are still
going to be the ones that win because
there's the getting to the physics of
the problem the physics of the problem
is The Human Condition and the only way
to uh get people's attention is to wow
them to solve a problem for them to
excite them to entertain them whatever
but that only happens when it's actually
good it's actually impressive it
captures their imagination it captures
their attention it draws them into your
universe so that is just super super
critical so the people that go heads
down do the work to create an amazing
product you're going to win the second
part of that is that you really have to
um Leverage
building a community community is
everything because they're going to be
the ones that help you spread that word
so building a community evangelizing
them making them love your product
helping them understand what what it
means to use your product and what they
represent to the world when they're
using your product that is
um just really really important so those
were the those are the two things an
amazing product in building a community
around it all right I have a question in
today's environment where it is the
business landscape is so crowded and it
seems like all the good ideas have
already been taken how can you go in and
create space and build a company in
today's environment the best way to
explain it is by actually doing
something let's take a huge business
throughout the world one of the biggest
telecommunications you have giant phone
companies you have servers that on your
cellular phone it's almost like a
lifestyle now right well how does
someone get in that industry and all of
a sudden you get all the Giants you're
going up against that have multi
millions and billions of dollars how do
you do it well you look at what the
industry is lacking and pull the
industry into it give you an example is
one of my latest companies Rock ROK
mobile Rock mobile believe it or not we
found the opening something how we did
it for 49 a month on your cell phone any
cell phone any smartphone we found a way
to give people other telephone calls to
the United States of Mexico 500
International minutes free they're
texting their data all their music over
20 million songs a hundred thousand
dollars worth of accidental life
insurance telemedicine seven days a week
24 hours a day a doctors on the other
end of the phone with you talking you
see what's going on now and pick your
carrier who works best for you here now
how do we pull this off with these
Giants Well we did a little research we
know people want their lifestyle if
possible to be on that cell phone if
possible but a lot of people can't
afford a cell phone or they pay so much
money average person that I talked to
pay one two sometimes 300 bucks a month
go International goes crazy on you but
uh so we did this we went to for example
the music companies the big music
companies you know there's you have
Warner Brothers you have University of
Sony right and said guys we'd like to be
another Avenue for you and your artist
one you don't have right now yeah it
sounds pretty good
we give you a piece of it all good went
to 500 500 other labels got them come on
board
went to a big carrier and said look we
know that you have something called the
churn a new word I learned where every
year 20 25 of your business you lose to
another carrier who has a better deal
here's what we have at that time we had
just the music where the texting the
data and and that right they said yeah
we could probably get some people back
with that and then we were able to go to
insurance companies and say we're
preventing we have all these millions
and by the way we took out a patent we
have the patent on an app that would
have whether it's uh medical insurance
any kind of insurance on there and
little by little they all got involved
all of a sudden now we're in
telecommunications in a very very big
way but the better part of it is this
how do I go back to my startup to help
those people out variety Boys and Girls
Club in East L.A where I would pay 25
cents for wood and sell it for 50 cents
as a big wooden flower pot right so we
thought Let's help them out let's help
you understand city in New York let's
sell Parliament sell people out so what
we're doing right now is with our profit
as we're saying kids we want to help you
have a good allowance so if you'd like
to you have the service for yourself or
your family or anybody you know we're
going to give you five dollars every
single month for a year that's your
allowance if 10 people have it that's
fifty dollars a month okay if a hundred
people have it and people can cancel
whatever they want but if they're still
on there that's 500 a month for one year
it's how to have something so low
everybody wants it and needs it it
changes the landscape and for us in
volume we'll make money but it shares it
along the way when you share success on
shared is failure and that's how rock is
just exploding right now just taking off
all underground Word of Mouth
that's one I'll give you another one
real quick we found out that
3.7 billion people
have the cold sore virus oh two out of
every three people have it right so
somebody came to me once a few years ago
and said JP we've been working with
Native Americans and universities on a
gel that comes out of plants it's
plant-based gel right and someone has a
cold sore you put it on and in most
cases they feel the tingle the cold sore
doesn't come out if it comes out you put
on every hour and almost everyone we
gave it to it's gone in less than two
days I said really so we started giving
it to people all of a sudden people are
saying oh my God this gets rid of that
cold sore and it's invisible in less
than two days so I spent millions of
dollars doing the double-blind studies
and everything else wow so now for like
you know less than 30 bucks someone
could buy a tube of Avio aubio is what
it's called a you for gold bio for
nature aubio they go online and buy it
they go to Target they could go to Rite
Aid they could go to you know all these
you guys are already in distribution
yeah it's already in distribution no
advertising it just got it out there
because the people Houston said wow this
is something this stuff is unbelievable
right and there's something you know
large chains that have it but for sure
Rite Aid has it at Target and CVS has it
also so we could go in that industry and
say we have something that we have
something different it's realistically
priced for not ripping everybody off so
as people think about it look at even
these big businesses what Niche would
you like to see happen cell phones God
we'd love to see it less expensive no
limitations and we have all these other
goodies look for that Niche what does it
need how can you put it together and
help the environment along the way if
you could do it
foreign
of a lot of companies meaning you could
talk about anything you could talk about
how we should be together you can say so
so that's a culture where the person who
has this struggle with that like uh
where they can say hey I think you're a
son of a that could say that to me
you could say anything you want and then
we try to find out is it true and then
we work ourselves through it so their
challenge is almost the opposite of the
other kind of challenge which is the
case in which you're trying to but in
all cases there is the notion of how are
we going to be with each other and
reaching that agreement so let's say you
want to be a certain way with the people
you're with like your wife it's the same
path if you cannot sit down and have a
conversation about how we're going to be
with each other
because they won't welcome it and that
way of being is an unacceptable way of
being for you and your development get
the hell out of there okay but you have
to be able to sit down and say how are
we going to be with each other and will
that be good for you and will that be
good for me and you got to be clear
that's why culture is so important you
know what kind of culture do I have in a
culture in which I can have those
conversations or am I going to be in a
culture in which I can I hear so many
cases because not now because of I
communicate with people on social media
you know I put the principle there then
we discuss each one of those principles
and I so
often run into people who say but I
can't talk to my boss that way and I
can't have this conversation and I can't
do this and that and it's very simple
thing like okay so we're going to do
about it and what you know like if I
can't talk to you
and whatever and I'm going to not be
able to even know what's true because I
can't have the conversation I'm going to
have a terribly a terrible life I'm
having the life that I don't want I
don't even know the direction I can't be
in the mission with you you seem to have
a really strong internal set of values
when did that begin to take shape in
terms of policies that you could
Implement in a company was it right away
did that take time when I worked for
other companies some of them not to
mention any names
were so bad they would treat people the
old way I'm the boss here's what you're
going to do because I'm the boss right
or there were times for example where
maybe had a dollar for lunch you can't
get a lot for a dollar so I just knew
that that's how I was and if I had a
company that I had a control of by gosh
everyone's going to be treated the way I
wanted to be treated so the minute we
could afford it everyone had free lunch
whether he had money or not you have
free lunch we pay for it for you carpool
will pay for that so we started doing
things for people that I wish happened
to me maybe that's part of Fate maybe
because a lot of things along the way
weren't so good that as things started
getting good it was so easy for me to
share with our people so easy to do that
people sometimes don't save money as
soon as we possibly could afford it we
started profit sharing we're at the end
of every year and we'll take that profit
sharing and put in a retirement fund for
you it's yours it's yours if you hear so
many years it goes with you no matter
where you go but it's yours that's your
money
and it's really incredible and how much
do you think that that sort of Golden
Rule approach has fed into your
ridiculously low turnover rate which is
literally
almost unprecedented I mean that's crazy
I try and treat people exactly the way
they'd want to be treated exactly or the
way I would have wanted to be treated
I'm happy with my people I realize my
people aren't the company if my people
go my God the company goes people are
your company and they take care of the
customer the customer is always right no
matter what so what do we do so the
customers happier if somebody's unhappy
would try and discover why and because
you treat people this way and we love
them you walk in our company it's love
if you go to the front desk here in
Century City this girl just has the
biggest well saying hi welcome to John
Paul Mitchell system she loves what she
does our big problem is we don't have
turnover we have so many people want to
work for us and the things you gotta
wait for somebody to die now as we grow
We'll add one or two on obviously at a
time sure and we're pretty big now
because we're in 96 countries Patron's
the same way we're in about 130
countries in the world and even when I
went to visit our people in Mexico at
our facility we make Patron is made with
love we have about 16 1800 people down
there and I asked several of them does
it upset you about what's going on in
the United States where they may close
more of the border and you know do you
guys want to go to America and everyone
I said are you kidding we get free lunch
here we work at night we get free dinner
here you're so nice to us you pay us
good money no we're fine here we don't
want to go but I never believe that no
matter what job you were doing were you
ever beneath anybody else you have to be
able in my company you talk to the boy
or the girl in the mail room the same
way that you talk with respect to the
CEO because somebody's dedicating
themselves to you have no right to say
that you are a better man or woman than
that person because that person has
family that person has love and that
person is the person so I think that
that is where my leadership uh mentality
has come in from and as well as how can
I have people be entrepreneurs in my
company if they can't if they're not
rewarded for potentially taking
small steps and trying to do things
outside the box as long as it's morally
correct with what we're doing as long as
nobody else gets hurt so I have those
that's just been my way of leaders
leadership and I'd be very honest I
don't like you know when when my company
was big and we had three or four hundred
people working for us internally and
another couple of thousand externally I
didn't like it
um so I also take my hat off to those
who can move ten thousand what was it
that you didn't like
you know I felt like at that time you
know us and I I came up you know in the
streets and I wasn't as educated a lot
of time in certain leadership and I
didn't realize for every 50 people you
may need one HR person so I I had an
open door policy and I felt like I was a
shrink you know all the time and I did
want my people to feel comfortable to
come in and be able to speak to me
um but again I also imagine my
leadership way I also have a massive
amount of respect for people who can you
who can move ten thousand people in
unison
um and and and and and lead lead people
so there's going to be a million
different ways to to be a leader and how
do you systematize that like because I
get it if you're there every day like
you like every Everybody I've ever heard
talk about you and some of them are
people that like I know
no like everyone says you just exude
like what you put on for the camera is
you like that's really how you are and
it's there's a warmth to it there's a
sense of love and appreciation and but
how do you systematize that how do you
make sure that it pervades your company
even when you're not there we let all
the companies know what we do and why we
do it we have a culture I'll give you an
example we have a got almost 120 Paul
Mitchell schools throughout the United
States cosmetology schools every one of
them has to be involved in our culture
not only do you learn how to be a great
hairdresser or stylist great colorist
right but you have to be part of the
culture they raise money every school we
have has to raise money every year part
of that money goes to local community
part to the nation and part to the world
they learn in school while it's good to
give and help others out they also learn
what our principles are now we started a
John Paul Mitchell Systems a very unique
position the lady that's running her
name is Mara gordine and she is is our
ambassador of corporate culture so what
she does is goes around to our whole
company makes sure everybody is reminded
of our culture what we do all new people
must go with an indoctrination on what
our culture is all about and then
recently because we do so much stuff
people don't know about we started a
magazine over the Internet that goes for
a whole universe in their universes that
shows what we do as a company to share
and change the entire world what
everyone connected with us is part of
that whether it's buying a new Coast
Guard Cutter for the Sea Shepherd to
protect Wells of the Open Seas whether
it's taking care of 7 000 orphans in
Africa whose parents have died of AIDS
whether it's redoing Appalachia whether
it's here in Los Angeles Christmas
getting homeless back to work they're
all part of it all the things we're
doing in this country so they all feel
like they're part of it well when you're
part of something really big
and people take care of you and love you
and you know if something went wrong you
can immediately get a hold of the
founder co-founder of the company me and
talk to me directly I live mainly in
Austin Texas but if I'm traveling the
world which I do a lot you get all my
executive assistants say we want to talk
to JP privately whether it's Paul
Mitchell John Paul Peck uh Rock Patron
all companies do exactly the same thing
thank you for watching this episode
which again was brought to you by impact
Theory's very own business decision
making Workshop if you guys are ready to
take your business to the next level by
investing in yourself and learning the
first principles of business then I want
you to take action right now and go to
decision dot impact theory.com to apply
I promise you I am giving you every
piece of information that you will need
to overcome any obstacle that your
company is facing to stare down problems
that will arrive a year five years after
you take the course this is the
strategies of business decision making
that every successful entrepreneur has
to learn to deploy against their company
if they want to grow alright guys I
promise it will deliver 10x the value of
what you pay for it and if it doesn't
I'll give you your money back no
questions asked you know me I live in
the public eye there's nowhere for me to
hide this is me trying to give as much
value as humanly possible I really think
this class would be transformative and I
hope you will sign up and I will see you
in the next live class alright guys take
care and be legendary